# ai-case-study

# JP Morgan Chase AI Project

## The involvement of AI within JP Morgan Chase and the future.

In this day and age, technological growth has been expedited and progressive. We have come a long way from the .com era to cell phones and now Artificial Intelligence. It’s only growing at a speed that may cause us to fall behind as individuals if we don’t keep up with technology as we should. Some would say when the internet came about, people were in denial it would expand and eventually must adapt to our everyday lives but fast forward to the early 2000’s to today on how much we rely on the internet and advanced technology to operate daily. Having said that, we are seeing many firms utilize AI much more than before which in turn are taking over needing a physical person to operate certain positions. 
JP Morgan Chase has been known not only at the national level but globally as a prestige and highly successful investment bank year after year. In 1799 it was founded as The Manhattan Company by Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr. Originally when it was founded, its purpose was to “supply pure and wholesome drinking water to the city’s growing population” (jpmorganchase.com 1) This idea later became a reality in 1807 when the company granted New York City’s volunteer fire companies free access to its network of water pipes to fight fires, contributing to the community’s public safety. (jpmorganchase.com 2) In regard to funding, this was made possible through the textile industry as well as chemical manufacturing. 
Although this may sound like what smooth sailing would consist of, there are always conflicts and issues that need to be addressed. The Panic of 1857 caused several banks to close on a single day which caused panic among customers and led to a loss of confidence in the banking system all around, not just the banks that closed that year. One of the only banks to not close down was the Chemical Bank which later acquired Chase Bank which also adopted the Chase name in 1996. Switching gears back to the Panic of 1857, caused heavy competition in the banking industry on a national level which also led to the government getting involved and creating several acts to regulate the banking system as a preventative strategy. During these times, there was no stability due to banks being a new era and the exposure being an overwhelming feeling throughout. 
The late 1800’s to early 1900’s was a time when bank acquisitions were happening due to competition from banks and certain advantages such as the ability to finance railroad systems. J.P. Morgan was able to accomplish this and be considered the largest transaction in railroad bonds ever in the United States. This is what separated them from their other competition which made a name for themselves in 1879 at the time of this historical financial event. 
	Currently, JPMC is utilizing AWS Cloud as a form of data mesh which falls under Amazon kinesis. (Siliconangle) This technology is explained in a certain form which consists of a data lake that goes from raw data to trusted data to then refined data which leads into a processing layer. Once in the processing layer, it can go in either direction, data catalog registration or the consumption layer. Either direction eventually leads into the final stage of the consumption layer consisting of machine learning and AI. ETR data is used to filter certain sectors to identify some of the companies that might contribute to the data mesh to see how they’re performing. (Siliconangle) 
	AI has been around for years, but we have never been exposed to it compared to the most recent decade or two. LLM Suite is a generative AI tool designed to serve as a ‘research analyst’ for over 50,000 employees (Forbes). This AI tool can provide creative solutions for written documents, emails, etc., which in turn can expedite problem-solving and quality of work for employees. Other major companies in the field of banking would be Capital One, Goldman Sachs, Fidelity, and Merrill Lynch which are major competitors and have been for decades.  
	JPMorgan has had a tremendous impact regarding utilizing AI technology not only for their firm but also expanding these resources to its employees to further expand their work accomplishments and to simplify tasks as well. This particular program LLM suite is an idea generation tool that facilitates “brainstorming and generating creative concepts, the tool empowers employees to think critically and innovate within their roles, ultimately contributing to business growth.” (Forbes) This can be measured as a form of not only efficiency but time-saving and completing tasks in a manner that will provide a more promising future. Implementing AI heavily with a high success rate has placed JPMC in a “leading position in artificial intelligence adoption across the banking sector this year.” (Bankingdive) Having said that, it has outperformed top banks across the board making “Capital One ranked second in AI adoption and made headway catching up to JPMorgan by doubling down on AI skills and development capabilities.” (Bankingdive) This proves that JPMC is outperforming its competition even with the additional resources and development within AI added to their firm. 
	Given that currently JPMC is leading in AI technology within the banking industry comes to show that they are strategically aware of their competition and able to outperform their close competitors. So, I would not recommend any other products or services in the sense of improving their methodology in facing their competition. Instead, I would strategize in a way where they see their competitor attempting to advance ahead of them and use that as a form of “doubling down” just like Capital One attempted to do to surpass them. Since no products or services were suggested on my behalf toward a firm that is already in a leading position, I would suggest they increase their budget for maintenance and upgrades to their systems and add additional layers of security to their technology.
	


 
Citations 

https://www.jpmorganchase.com/about/our-history 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chemical_Bank
https://siliconangle.com/2021/07/10/new-era-data-deep-look-jpmorgan-chase-runs-data-mesh-aws-cloud/
https://www.forbes.com/sites/janakirammsv/2024/07/30/jpmorgan-chase-leads-ai-revolution-in-finance-with-launch-of-llm-suite/
https://www.bankingdive.com/news/jpmorgan-chase-capital-one-ai-adoption-leaders-evident/730268/
